# OlympicsBigData
A big data project to practice filing. Read the README for more, including credits

#Credits
Deepak Bhatt from medium.com for the data: https://medium.com/@deepakbhatt17/uncovering-120-years-of-olympic-history-a-data-analysis-project-in-excel-f48ff9bcae51

#Little Essay on why I made this
Lost Olympians: Discovering Forgotten Legends Through Computer Science

The Olympics started in 1896 and tested the true human limits in the sports industry. Regarding the Olympics, many people have asked questions while watching. For example, who was the tallest athlete of them all? How many silver medals does Guam have? What amazing Olympic athletes has the world forgotten about?  I chose this topic for my big data project because I wanted to answer these questions and more. This topic is fascinating and fun to do. After all,  the users of the program and I get to learn about some of the greatest Olympic athletes of all time. The user can even learn about Olympic athletes they’ve never heard of before! The goal of this program is to show great Olympic athletes, many of whom are often overlooked, and give them the recognition they deserve for their love of their country and sport. Overall, this program allows users to find lost Olympic athletes. 

In the beginning, the user can choose from seven different features, including the ability to add information about an athlete who may not be in the database. If the user is trying to add an athlete already in the database, the program will ask them if they want to continue and give the current information it has on the athlete. The user then can say yes or no to whether or not they want to continue adding information. The user can also search for a specific Olympic athlete to view their statistics from every event they have competed in. Additionally, the user can view statistics for a specific Olympic year and season, including the total number of gold, silver, and bronze medals, as well as the average height and age of athletes. The program also lets the user look up information on a country, showing its total medal count and a list of all its Olympic athletes. The user can additionally explore Olympic records, viewing six incredible records from 1896 to 2016. If the user wants the computer to choose for the user, the user can choose the "I'm Feeling Lucky" feature, which randomly selects an athlete and gives the user the option to view all of that athlete's data. Finally, the program includes a quit option, allowing the user to exit with a friendly goodbye.

Our data comes from the Medium article, Uncovering 120 Years of Olympic History: A Data Analysis Project in Excel 🏅. This source was great because it gave us 271,117 Olympic athletes and their data that participated in the Olympics from 1896 to 2016. A challenge with using this data was the fact that it was missing weight data for some athletes, and in some instances, I had to skip incomplete records because they were incompatible with the program, a sad but necessary limitation. 

There were also many other issues while using this database, including when I had a big ‘comma error’ that made everything off-format. For example, at one point, the program was saying that the average age of the 1948 Summer Olympics was 18,461 years old, or when some of the information was blank because back in the early 1900s, they did not measure the weight of every athlete. I also had to make the code as efficient as possible, meaning as few loops as possible, because the file was so big. This meant no index() functions, no min() and max() functions, and more. There were many limitations in making this code as efficient as possible, but it was a good experience for writing efficient code.

Overall, this program will help me and users across the world to learn more about the Olympics and the amazing athletes who have dedicated their lives to sports.
